(Alan Ruttenberg)

Introductory: 

The problem with spatial regions. 
 - Denseness of space is not verified scientifically
 - lower dimension regions have zero measure in real space, i.e. some
   spatial projection from spacetime.
 - At least, given what we know (and which has been verified) about
   special and general relativity, space is necessarily perspectival
   as a) there is no preferred spacetime origin or orientation and b)
   entities traveling in relative motion to each other, or in
   different gravitational fields, see/measure/interact the same
   physical phenomena differently in their own frame that would occur
   in the others frame. A consequence of this is that c) there is only
   a partial order on time - specifically there are cases where one
   can not determine in a universal way (i.e. independent of frame)
   whether they occur at the same time or whether one precedes the
   other.


Types: 

frame: 

A frame is an orientation, in spacetime, of the spatial and temporal
dimensions, and a relative metric (relative to nearby frames) upon
them. The laws of physics are such that they necessarily involve the
spatial and temporal dimensions and their metrics, but are invariant,
in a variety of different senses, across certain transformations of
frames. Because frames are orientations of spacetime, and are not
constrained so that solely spatial dimensions in one frame are solely
spatial dimensions in another frame, spatial and temporal regions
necessarily depend on frame. According to general relativity, frames
can vary from spatiotemporal instant(sti) to sti, but the covariance
between how they vary from sti to sti and how the laws of physics
manifest is governed by presence and proximity of mass/energy density.
[the above needs checking by a physicist]

[I'm not sure this is needed. I think a single frame can be the
genesis of a complete coordinate system. Check

frame field: 

A frame field is a collection of frames at each sti in spacetime.
]

[I'm not sure inertial frame field belongs on this side - strongly leaning towards it being a coordinate system yielding certain approximations 

inertial frame field: 

An inertial frame field is a frame field in which the spatial and
temporal metrics are constant and their orientation remains
unchanged from sti to sti. Physical laws take the same form in
all intertial frame fields, characterized by a lack of the
so-called 'fictitious forces'.
]

coordinate system:

A coordinate system is a plan specification of a plan realized as
computing of coordinates of some entity or in construction or a
specification of how to translate coordinates constructed by such
process to another coordinate system.

[note above 
An inertial coordinate system is a coordinate system, with the
computation constructing coordinates whose distance metric is
everywhere and always directly proportional to the metric of a
inertial frame field.
]

earth based coordinate system:

an earth based coordinate system is a spatiotemporal coordinate
system whose plan is realized as construction of spatial
coordinates that are defined by reference to the planet earth
and, aside for periodic adjustments for accuracy, do not vary in
time, and whose time coordinate is constructed by reference to a
periodic process as measured by an observer who is at rest in the
coordinate system.

geodetic coordinate system:

a geodetic coordinate system is an earth-based spatiotemporal
coordinate system whose plan is realized as construction of
coordinates that expressed as longitude, lattitude and elevation.

earth based laboratory coordinate system:

a euclidean earth based coordinate system, typically in terms SI
units, with one spatial axis aligned to point at the center of the
earch (i.e. in the direction gravity pulls). Note: unspecified as to
temporal and spatial origins, and orientation of spatial axes
perpendicular to the gravity aligned one.


coordinate datum:

A coordinate datum is a name for a position in a metric space
editor note: Coordinates can be used to name elements of
lists. Is a list a metric space? I think so but this should be
verified.

spatiotemporal coordinate datum:

A spatiotemporal coordinate datum is a 4 part coordinate datum that
represents a frame.

spatial coordinate datum:

A spatial coordinate is the  of all or
some of the spatial coordinates of a spatiotemporal coordinate
datum and is about part of a spatial region.

temporal coordinate datum:

A temporal coordinate is the part of a spatiotemporal coordinate datum
that designates the time-like dimension and is about part of a
temporal region.

Axioms:

Meta: Predications on time must specify a frame
Every spatial region depends on a frame
Every temporal region depends on a frame

International Celestial Reference System instanceOf coordinate system

World Geodetic System is_a earth base coordinate system
WGS 84 instance_of World Geodetic System (note only defines position on earth, not altitude/depth)
International Celestial Reference System instanceOf coordinate system

Todo: Need euclidean coordinate system, something that explains
coordinate transformations, a lab x,y,z coordinate system class and
constraints on its metrics, something that makes clearer the partition
into spacelike and timelike coordinate parts.

Some cites:
http://aa.usno.navy.mil/faq/docs/ICRS_doc.php
http://www.physicsforums.com/showthread.php?t=168631
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Method_of_moving_frames
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manifold
http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/spacetime-holearg/
http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/spacetime-iframes/
http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/spacetime-theories/
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Geodetic_System



